.TH ticc_unit_test 1 "2012 August 20"

.SH NAME
TiCC Unit Tests - A 'poor mans' C++ Unit testing Framework
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include "ticcutils/UnitTest.h"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Ticc Unit Test provides some powerful functions, combined in a single header 
file, which give you a simple way to implement Unit Tests.

Ticc Utils aims at easy usage, quick implementation of test suites without
compiling and linking issues. It is possible to create a test suite by just adding
a few assertions around C++ expressions, and Ticc Unit Test will start working 
at once: counting the number of tests, failures and providing a summary at 
program end.

Compared to other frameworks, like Boost, CPPUNIT or Google there are some 
limitations. [But who cares? more to say!]

.SH List of assertions.

.B assertEqual(expression1,expression2)
.RS
test if 
.B expression1
equals
.B expression2

If not so: signal the problem and increment the number of detected failures
If so: signal success. (except when part of a 
.BR testSerie . 
see below)
.RE

.B assertTrue(expression)
.RS
test if 
.B expression
evaluates to 
.B true

If not so: signal the problem and increment the number of detected failures
If so: signal success. (except when part of a 
.BR testSerie . 
see below)
.RE

.B assertMessage(message,expression)
.RS
the same as 
.B assertTrue()
but also displays 
.B message on failure
.RE

.B assertThrow(expression,exception)
.RS
test if 
.B expression
throws the given
.B exception

If not so: signal the problem and increment the number of detected failures
If so: signal success. (except when part of a 
.BR testSerie . 
see below)
.RE

.B assertNoThrow()
.RS
test if 
.B expression
doesn't throw.

If not so: signal the problem and increment the number of detected failures
If so: signal success. (except when part of a 
.BR testSerie . 
see below)
.RE

.SH setting up a testSerie

.B startTestSerie(message)
.RS
Signal the beginning of a series of tests, using 
.B message
When a
.B testSerie
is active, all success messages of the 
.B assert*
macro's are suppressed. Failures are still signaled. At the end of a
.B testSerie
a summary is given.

.B testSerie
automatically ends at the end of the program block it is declared in.
.RE

.SH suppressing output.
Sometimes it is desirable to suppress excessive success messages, for instance 
when one of the
.B assert*
functions is called in a loop.

This can be achieved with the macro's:

.B TEST_SILENT_ON()
and
.B TEST_SILENT_OFF()

all failures are still displayed as to inform you off any trouble.

.SH Summarizing Tests
The Ticc Unit test will automatically give a summary of the results at the end
 of the program. It also returns the number of failures to the shell.

It is however possible to call
.B summarize_tests(expected)
.BR
The advantage is, that you can provide a number
.B expected
to signal that you expected some failures, and that it is 
.B not
a showstopper.
.ER

.SH EXAMPLES

.BR Example " 1"
.RS
.nf
#include <string>
#include <iostream>
#include "ticcutils/UnitTest.h"
int main(){
  assertEqual( (1+2), (2+1) );
  assertTrue( 0 == 1 );
}
.fi
.RE

The output of this program is:
.RS
.nf
test: main(6):  OK  
test: main(7):   FAILED  
main(7) : '0' != TRUE
performed 2 tests, 1 failures. We expected 0 failures.
overall   FAILED  
.fi
.RE

When an extra line is added at the end of main():
.RS
.nf
  summarize_tests(1);
.fi
.RE

The output changes to:
.RS
.nf
test: main(6):  OK  
test: main(7):   FAILED  
main(7) : '0' != TRUE
performed 2 tests, 1 failures. that was what we expected.
overall:  OK  
.fi
.RE

.BR Example " 2"
.RS
.nf
#include <string>
#include <iostream>
#include <stdexcept>
#include <cmath>
#include "ticcutils/UnitTest.h"

void helper(){
  throw std::runtime_error("fout");
}

int main(){
  assertThrow( helper(), std::runtime_error );
  assertNoThrow( 1/std::sqrt(0) );
}
.fi
.RE

So we force a runtime error in our helper function, and detect it.
We also attempt a division by zero. But on my system, this will result in an
.B inf
result and 
.B NOT
in an exception. Therefor the 
.B assertNoThrow()
will be satisfied.

The output of this program is:
.RS
.nf
test: main(13):  OK  
test: main(14):  OK  
performed 2 tests, 0 failures. that was what we expected.
overall:  OK  
.fi
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot Timbl@uvt.nl


